::PROJECT DETAILS::
My Role
Design Lead + Project Manager

Project Type
Mobile App

Timeline
3 months
March 2015-May 2015

Advisor
Chris Harrison
Designing Human-Centered Software

Teammates
Bhavya Chilakapati, Won Chung, Nat Eliason, Aubrey Higginson

::BLURB::
The goal of Reps was to make tracking weightlifing exercises as smooth and handsfree of a task as possible in order to help users focus on the workout.

::CHALLENGE::
Runners have enjoyed the fluid fitness experience of apps that passively track workouts. Why doesn't that fluidity of weightlifting exist for weightlifting?

Existing weightlifting apps require manual input of sets and reps, and they don't provide a simple rest tracker. When you're exercising, you don't want to constantly check the clock or enter every rep and set. You want to focus on the exercise.

::SOLUTION::
Reps automatically tracks exercises as they are performed using the phone's accelerometer. With a tap on the phone held in a pocket or armband, the user is automatically starts a rest counter. As soon as it is time for the next set, Reps lets the user know.

::HOW IT WORKS::
<diagram?>
VIDEO HERE


--Input Exercise
Reps prompts the user to add exercise details before beginning the set.
<double screen>

--Using the Accelerometer
The accelerometer allows for rep counting to be conducted...hands-free!

The user just has to put their phone in their pocket or strap it to their arm or leg with an armband.
<single screen>

--Counter + Rest
While Reps counts reps and rest time, the only user interaction required is to mark the end and start of each set.
<double screen>

--Save Workout Details
Users can save their workout to view later in their workout history.
<single screen>

::DESIGN + RESEARCH PROCESS::
--Manually Inputting Data Is a Hassle
Through surveying, user interviews, and market research, our team discovered that many weightlifters do not use any technology during their workout. Many had installed an app, and then uninstalled it shortly because there were too many frills. Most fitness applications are related to diet or running.
<list competitors: Fitocracy, Lose It!, MyFitnessPal, spreadsheets, Strava, Map My Run, Runkeeper>

--Persona + Use Cases

--Design + Feedback
Our team went through rounds of paper prototyping, mid-fi protptyping in Keynote, and hi-fi prototyping in Photoshop and Invision with user testing in between before moving into development.

--Development
Using the Pythagorean Theorem, Reps calculates net acceleration from the x, y, and z axes data points obtained from the phone accelerometer. When acceleration exceeds 2m/s^2, Reps increments the count of a rep in a set.

For the frontend, XML files use and combine design assets that are saved as PNG files.

<dev diagram>

::FUTURE::
The application is currently live on the Google Play store.

If time permitted...
